.TH UP 1 "2026" "eMerger 2.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
up \- eMerger, one-command system updater
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B up
[\fIoptions\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
eMerger detects installed package managers on the host and runs each of them
in turn to refresh, upgrade and clean the system. It also offers optional
cleanup of the user cache and trash.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -h, --help
Show help and exit.
.TP
.B -V, --version
Show version and exit.
.TP
.B -i, --interactive
Interactive menu (gum, whiptail, or plain fallback).
.TP
.B -n, --dry-run
Print what would be done; do nothing.
.TP
.B -v, --verbose
Stream package manager output live.
.TP
.B -q, --quiet
Minimal output.
.TP
.B -y, --yes
Assume "yes" on prompts.
.TP
.B --security
Only security updates when the manager supports them.
.TP
.B --firmware
Include firmware updates via fwupdmgr.
.TP
.B --dev
Include dev toolchains (rustup, cargo, npm, pnpm, pip, gem).
.TP
.B --parallel
Run independent user-space managers in parallel.
.TP
.B -nl, -ni, -nc, -nt
Skip logo, system info, cache clean, trash clean.
.TP
.B -w, --weather
Show the current weather.
.TP
.B -up
Self-update eMerger via git.
.TP
.B -au
Install a weekly auto-update (systemd user timer or cron).
.TP
.B -err
Print logged errors.
.TP
.B --history
Print a summary of recent runs.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/emerger/config.sh
Sourced before argument parsing.
.TP
.I ~/.config/emerger/hooks/pre.d/*.sh, post.d/*.sh
User hook scripts.
.TP
.I ~/.local/state/emerger/emerger.log
Log file.
.TP
.I ~/.local/state/emerger/history.jsonl
One JSON record per run.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
0  success
.TP
1  runtime failure
.TP
2  argument parsing error
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cron (8),
.BR systemd.timer (5)
